August 11th, 2005: L. D. Marks

This is the beta version of a portable semper. So far it has been compiled and 
quickly checked using the following combinations:
        gcc 3.X, g77    Integer*4       Redhat 9 & Cygwin
        icc, ifort      Integer*4       Redhat 9
        icc, ifort      Integer*4       Redhat 9
        cc, f90         Integer*2       HPUX

It appears to work OK, although so far I've only been able to use the full 
color mode since my laptop linux does not have any pseudo-color or greyscale 
maps.

The code is a "classic" GNU-like structure. What you can do is:
        ./configure
        make
        make install
        make help

which will put the code in the default directory /usr/local/semper-7.0b with
executables in /usr/local/semper-7.0b/bin under names semper7 etc. At the 
moment you really should know what you are doing in terms of using semper to 
be able to test it. Some information is in the file GettingStarted, which needs
a lot more.

Some words of caution:

1) Many systems are broken -- believe me, this is not a joke! If you do not 
have a correctly setup system the initial .configure step will almost certainly
not work.

2) There are various options that can be changed how the configure script is 
run, do "./configure --help" to see them. The most important are the 
environmental variables CC, F77 which point to your C & Fortran compilers. The 
current script has a reasonably good idea about optimized values for the 
compilation flags, so you probably should not tweak these.

3) Often semper installations have an integer mode which is 2bytes. g77 (also
gfortran) do not appear to have a flag which can force the default integer
mode to by 2bytes, so the default compilation is for 4byte integer images. 

4) If you REALLY want integer*2 and only have gcc/g77 in the subdirectory f2c 
are three directories src, libf2c and fort77. Go to the first two, edit
the "makefile" as appropriate, compile and install. Then go to fort77 and just
run make install. If this works you have a 99% change of using the flag
--enable-fort77 when you configure (with F77=fort77) and getting a running
version. Some things will probably not work right, you're a bit on your own.

5) If you type semper and (after some standard stuff) get a prompt which 
responds to you, that is a good sign. If it does not, something went wrong.

6) If you run remotely from a bigendian machine (e.g. an SGI) to a 
littleendian one (e.g. a PC) you may get grey scale images which look yellow 
(or green or ...). This is a hard one to solve.

7) If you are using gcc/g77 and have not installed g++ you will get some dire
warnings during the configure step. These don't in fact appear to matter (but
I'm sure I'll get a lot of emails about them).

8) The online help is OK, but the keyword ordering in the help files needs to
be updated.

A BIG WORD OF CAUTION. Make copies of any existing semper discs that have 
useful data on them before you try and assign them. The gods might be with you 
in terms of being able to read them, who knows! This is one thing that I'd 
like to find out.
