This file is a quick summary of what I know to be the differences between the current release
(Semper 7) and the NU version (based on release 6.1) and the prior SGI version (6.34).

Semper 6.1

1) Numerous changes in file names. For instance, vd has become syntax. 
2) Log files are no longer automatically created -- they have to be allocated. Need to use "echo 
log" rather than "log" to produce output. 
3) Default suffixes have changed. For instance, we used ".disc" but the current version has a 
default of ".dsk" if you don't set one. 
4) The "plo" key was local to the NU implimentation of semper and is not in the current version. It 
would be nice to add it, but it is probably easier just to redo partitions. 
5) The cursor is not so nice -- the 'good' NU cursor needs to be implimented. 
6) Popup window help works (in linux, not in cygwin at present), but unfortunately is not correctly 
keyworded. Try help /mon XYZ 
7) Quite a few new features, for instance the ability to change the cache size and have an 
effective disc in memory is now implimented. This is probably slower than the NU implimentation 
where all discs were in memory. 
8) Several commands not implimented, and may never be:
        mic 	Use "input raw byte" instead (perhaps with byte swapping) with an offset to skip the
		header.
        enter   No substitute
        pput    For the moment use "output tiff"; I don't know why it won't work!
        get 	Maybe can be done using "input raw fp" or "input raw complex", probably not. 
9) Some new commands, for instance "unix" which sometimes runs a unix command (sometimes hangs the 
window).
10) Clumsy popup window, alas (LDM opinion), rather than a straightforward terminal. No scrollback,
although up/down arrows for history work. 
11)Best implimentation is with integer*4. It is possible to do integer*2, but (LDM opinion) not a 
good idea. 
12)Perhaps more accurate than HP's (less accurate than Apollo's, but that's really old history). 
13)Moving images from older semper discs to the new ones may be tricky -- MAKE COPIES! Probably 
best it to try and unformatted write (see help) then move them. This might work, although there may 
be an issue with byte swapping. There is a command dskconv (installed to 
/usr/local/semper-7.0b/bin) which might work, e.g. "dskconv Mydisc.disc"

Semper 6.34

1) Full color is default mode -- most modern machines don't have anything else.
2) Some commands such as hrems may well be broken.
3) SGI locals not implimented.
4) See comments above about integer*2
5) Conversion should be easier using dskconv (see above) UNLESS you have integer images. You have 
to do a raw output of these and then use "input raw i2" to retrieve them. Note: the keys "i2" and 
"i4" to the input/output commands are not currently documented (I'm not good at writing 
documentation).

LDM, Aug 17, 2005.
